For my final project, I am creating an interactive art animation. This piece will be comprised of illustrations I have composed to create an animation. I will use P5.js to make the various pieces of the artwork move and be interactable by the viewer.

My original inspiration for this artwork actually came from the "Function Parameters and ARguments" video included with module 12, where an example is used that featured various modular robots. I have used robot characters in my traditional artwork in the past, and I liked the image that was shown in the video and thought it would be cool if the robots could move or interact in some way. I am also inspired by an old website animation that I have unfortunately not had any luck re-locating. It featured a black background when you navigated to the page, and then played an animation of a vine or tree branch growing out of the darkness, and various creatures and vines and flowers would sprout up as you followed along the branch for the duration of the animation. It was something I saw years ago and has stuck with me, and I would like to create similar work in the future.

Some issues I will need to learn about or problem solve in order to make this work is learning more about how to animate images in P5.js and how I might make the artwork interactable. It would be cool to figure out how to make things like the robot's arms move smoothly and dynamically, and how to maybe have other artwork within the artwork that appears when the viewer interacts with the image. I think it would be cool if the robot's eyes followed the user's mouse, and I am not sure at this point how to make that happen the way that I envision in my head, so that will take some research. I will also need to find out more about adding sound and music to the project.

I would ideally like to have all of the art elements for this project done by this weekend, 4/27, and have the entire project idea mapped out so that I can focus on building the code and putting everything together by the project deadline 5/02.

This week, I have done some research on animating in P5.js, and also have the majority of the main artwork completed for this project. 