This is my final project folder.

I started this project by doing some research and brainstorming trying to decide what exactly it was that I wanted to do. I spent time looking through the past project examples on the course site and looking through the code for different projects to see how past students did their projects. I also spent some time looking up P5.js projects online to see what other creators are doing. I ultimately decided I wanted to create an interactive animation, as my primary experience lies in more traditional art, and I wanted to incorporate those skills into my final project. I was inspired by a project shown on The Coding Train videos included with module 12, and decided to make my final project a robot.

I began the actual work of my project by creating the illustrations in ProCreate. I paid special attention to grouping different parts of the illustration that I would want to animate separate from the rest of the image within my final project. Once I had the art completed for this project, I imported it into Adobe Photoshop and used it to export these image groups into separate PNG files that I could load into my P5.js project as different objects.

This is where I ran into my first issue. I was having trouble loading in the background PNG correctly and ultimately ended up exporting a smaller JPG file for this piece instead, which allowed me to get things set up correctly easier. 

Once I had the static image of my robot imported into my P5.js project, I began working on the code to make the head move. I went back to our homework from module 10 on bouncing shapes forever and used that information to move my head PNG file so that it created a "head bob" motion.

I was largely using the P5.js Web Editor to test my code at this point. I copied my new working code into my final project file in GitHub, and then discovered that I was getting stuck on a loading screen with an error in my console about image files not loading when I tried to run the project in my browser. This was very frustrating. I ended up stepping away for the night, and when I came back the next day to look at it again, I realized that when I'd replaced my background PNG with a JPG, I'd switched the files in the P5.js Web Editor, but had forgotten to update the files in my project folder, so the code was trying to access a file that didn't exist. Once I replaced the PNG file with the JPG correctly within my project folder, the problem was resolved.

My idea for my robot animation was that when you clicked on the image, the door in the robot's chest would open and reveal a different image each time. I used Photoshop to create a door opening GIF that I could play on click. I didn't know how to load and play a GIF in P5.js, so I did have to do some research online for this. 

Originally, I had some issues with the GIF loading in but not actually playing. I was eventually able to get it to play correctly, which was exciting! I also ran into some struggles with having the images that were supposed to be inside the door loading over the top of the GIF file instead of behind it. I ended up changing the PNG files I used for the "secret" images to just be part of the robot itself instead of separate files, and used some "if" statements in my "mousePressed" function and an array to change the image that was revealed on each mouse click. 

Once I had the door animation working as intended, I knew I wanted to add music to my final project. While working on my animations during my first week on this project, I'd been listening to Spotify, and the song "Intimidating Canvas" by Juno Kids came on. I thought this cool electronic instrumental piece was a perfect fit for my weird robot animation, so I decided to use it in my project. I found Juno Kid's SoundCloud and was able to download a WAV file to use. 

I didn't know how to add sound to a P5.js project yet, so I started some research online how to do this. This is where my project got really discouraging; my WAV file was too large to test my code in the Web Editor, and everytime I tested it in my browser, I started getting errors that it couldn't load my files from a local directory. Once I realized I needed to download the P5.sound.js addon to my project and run it through GitHub directly to resolve the "local directory" issue, I got everything to work correctly. I also discovered at some point I had an extra curly bracket floating around that was causing issues. Getting rid of that helped a lot.

I wanted to properly credit Juno Kids for the music, so I did some research online to figure out how to add a link to my P5.js file that links to their SoundCloud.

My final issue with my project was the robot's eyes. I initially wanted the eyes to light up on mouse click, but they lit up so briefly that it wasn't noticeable. I spent some time trying to research if there was a way to to have an image load in for a specified amount of time on mouse click, but wasn't able to find the info I needed. I ultimately decided to re-work the PNG files I had for the eyes and set up another array to have the eye image change on mouse click along with thet "secret images" behind the door. 

I am ulimately happy with how this project turned out, but definitely want to continue working on it and do more with it in the future (when I have more time haha). I'd like to break out the "tentacles" as individual segments and figure out how to code in movement to make them look like their moving in a natural way. I'd also like to figure out how to make the eyes light up in the way I initially envisioned. Hopefully these are things I can figure out as I continue to learn code in the future!